## Project: Titanic — ML Pipeline

### Overview

In this project, the classic Titanic survival prediction challenge was addressed with a primary focus on **Feature Engineering** and **Latent Pattern Analysis**. Instead of relying solely on raw data, a modular preprocessing pipeline was developed. This approach allowed for the discovery of hidden social structures within the passenger manifest, resulting in a final accuracy of **84.36%**.
The Jupyter Notebook provided in this directory is a copy of the work conducted on **Kaggle**. The code was developed locally and subsequently uploaded to the Kaggle platform for submission. Two separate iterations of the submission process were performed to refine the results. Additionally, a screenshot of the **Kaggle score** is included, as the platform only preserves submission results for a limited period. The final submission file (submission.csv) is generated by the code during each execution and is not tracked by Git to maintain a clean repository.

### Machine Learning Pipeline

``` mermaid
graph TD 
A["Raw Data (train.csv)"] --> B{Feature Engineering} 
B --> C1["Title Extraction (Mr, Miss, Master, Rare)"] 
B --> C2["Family Dynamics (Size & Survival odds)"] 
B --> D[PCA] 
D --> E[Model Training] 
E --> F[Random Forest + GridSearch CV] 
F --> G1[Error Analysis: Tragic vs. Miraculous Outliers]

```    

### Project Iteration: Feature Engineering Evolution

While the baseline model provided a solid foundation, **Version 2** adopted a **Research-Driven Title Extraction** strategy (inspired by community solutions).

-   **Impact:** Although the accuracy gain was marginal, this feature was retained for its logical consistency.
    
-   **Why it matters:** Titles like `Master` or `Rare` (status-based) provide the model with a "social proxy" that raw age cannot capture. It allows for smarter imputation of missing values and better separation of risk groups (e.g., distinguishing young boys from adult men).
#### 2. Dimensionality Reduction (PCA)

* Captured **52% of variance** with 2 components. PC1 reflects Gender/Status, while PC2 aligns with Class/Age.
    

#### 3. Optimized Modeling

-   **Algorithm:** Random Forest Classifier.
    
-   **Optimization:** Used `GridSearchCV` (5-fold) to find optimal parameters.
    
-   **Performance:** Balanced - Accuracy (84.36%) estimated
    

#### 4. Qualitative Error Analysis 

The mismatches were investigated to understand if they align with the general trend defined by model or not
-   **Conclusion:** These errors represent historical "situational noise" rather than model flaws, confirming the model has reached its logical limit with the available features.
    

### Core libraries

-   **Scikit-Learn:** Modeling, PCA, Scaling, GridSearch.
-   **Pandas & NumPy:** Complex data transformation.
-   **Seaborn & Matplotlib:** Heatmaps, Confusion Matrices, Component Loadings.